How does tracking and adding changes make developers' lives easier?

* Even in the case of a single developer working on a project, tracking and adding changes in Git allows the developer to bookmark his progress and he develops a program.  In the case of multiple developers working on the same project it allows individual developers to contribute to the ongoing development and collaborate collectively.


What is a commit?

* a commit is a snapshot if you will of a set of files at a given point in time when they are 'committed'.  It is a retreivable record of the progress of a set of files at a given point that can be relied on as a safety net; should bugging issues and other problems be encountered reverting back to any given past commit is possible in Git.  In this way it is a way to closely monitor and track progress of a project's development over time.


What are the best practices for commit messages?

* They should be direct and concise - limited to 75 characters at the most.  The first line should be treated as the subject line of an email - a brief title of the message.  The following description should be clear and descriptive and should be in the imperitive tense.


What does the HEAD^ argument mean?

* HEAD operates with the 'reset' argument.  When used with the reset argument is tells git to restore to the previous commit or any commit prior to the latest one.

What are the 3 stages of a git change and how do you move a file from one stage to the other?

* 1) First you would need to create a branch using the 'checkout' command.  

  2) changes would be made within the branch and the changes would be confirmed using the 'status' command.

  3) Changes would be commited to the stage.


Write a handy cheatsheet of the commands you need to commit your changes?

* checkout: creates a new branch

  status: assesses status of changes

  add: adds a change